# `A brief Overview of different kinds of problems under the umbrella of machine learning`


---

### To tackle any problem in the realm of machine learning, two important aspects are to be decided as the very first step towards solving it.

1. **`What problem are you facing?`**
2. **`What will your input to the model be?`**

Here we will talk about the $1^{st}$ question. 

### `What kind of a problem are you trying to solve?`

The following are the types of problems that you will encounter most often if you are starting out in the realm of ML:

1. **`Binary Classification:`** In machine learning, binary classification has the goal is to predict a binary outcome (that is, one of two possible classes). For example, when you have to predict whether an email is spam or not, whether a transaction is fraudulent or not, etc.
2. **`Scalar regression:`** This is when the model gives a continous outcome variable, based on the input features. For example, when you want to predict the price of houses and your input features are the number of bedrooms, the location of the house, the number of bathrooms, etc. 
3. **`Multiclass classification:`** In this type, the model has to decide to which of the two or more classes the inputs belong to. For example, you have 4 classes of different types of pets (cats, dogs, parrots, tortoises). The model has to predict to which of these classes an image of a dog belongs to.
4. **`Vector regression:`** In this type, instead of predicting a single scalar value as the output (as in scalar regression), a vector regression model predicts a vector of values. For example, you not only want to predict the price of the house as in scalar regression, but along with it, also the price of the house after one year, and the best tell to sell it. 
5. **`Multilabel classification:`** This is a type where, each input in your data can belong to multiple classes, or labels, simultaneously. For example, you want the model to predict the genre of movies, given some features of the movie. The categories you have are action, comedy, romance. Each movie can belong to multiple genres (Like Fast and Furious, it has a blend of comedy, romance, and action.)
6. **`Clustering:`** In this type, given a set of data points, a clustering algorithm assigns each data point to one of a set of categories (or "clusters"), such that data points in the same cluster are more similar to each other than to those in other clusters. For example, customer segmentation, anomaly detection, etc.
7. **`Generative Algorithms:`** This is a personal favourite as it enables AI to imitate creativity! The task here is, for the model to learn underlying data structures or patterns in the training data and create new data that resembles the training data. For example, text generation as seen in ChatGPT, Image generation like DeepArt, etc. You can visit a website https://this-person-does-not-exist.com/en and see how cool Generative AI is! try refreshing the image and see almost realistic images (of people) generated by the model.
8. **`Reinforcement learning:`** This is a whole different beast and we will dive deep into it later, for now, consider it as a category of ML where an agent learns to make decisions by taking actions in an environment to maximize some reward. It is about learning from interaction with an environment to achieve a goal. There are many cool applications for this category of ML which included playing games, robot navigation, etc. Do watch https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WXuK6gekU1Y to see a cool appliction to this marvel!

